---
title: Integration Overview
keywords: E-Mandates Integration Overview
summary: "Depending on whether you are an individual merchant or a partner, managing multiple merchants, your integration with Nuapay will be different. This section outlines what is required in both models."
sidebar: em_sidebar
permalink: em_integrationoverview.html
folder: prodEmandates
---

It is possible to interact with the E-Mandate APIs as an individual Merchant or as a Partner entity (with the ability to call services on behalf of specific merchants, linked to that entity).

|Merchant| A single entity; calls the required APIs for itself|
|Partner| An entity with one or more child merchants linked to it; calls APIs on behalf of individual merchants (using an `OAuth` token to reference the required merchant entity)|

For more information on these integration methods, see the [Token Management](tok_tokenmgmt.html) section.

## Merchant Integration

As a merchant:

1. Nuapay Customer Support will issue you with an API Key, unique to your business,  when first onboarded.
1. Use this key to authenticate your API requests (Basic Auth).
1. Optionally, if required, you may use your API Key to generate `OAuth` tokens.


## Partner Integration

When interacting with the services as a partner, you will need to generate and use a specific token per merchant in your API requests.  

The following steps are required to generate an access token for a specific merchant:

1. You will be provided with a (Partner-grade) API Key when onboarded.
1. Use this API Key to call the `GET /organisations` service; this returns a list of all merchants configured under your partner entity in Nuapay.
1. Select the required merchant's encoded identifier from the response.
1. Pass that encoded merchant identifier to the `Security /token` endpoint to retrieve an OAuth token unique to the selected merchant.

Use the OAuth token returned in the response in all subsequent API requests generated by you, as partner, on behalf of your merchant.
